docs/development.md, before:

## Development

This is reference material for local development.

If you just want to use the library, you don't need any of this.

### Release checklist

- Verify tests and examples are
- Check that all documentation is updated
- Update version number (``__version__`) in `gridsim/__init__.py`
- Push to master
- Create release on Github
  (This will automatically create a new documentation version on Read The Docs and deploy an updated release to PyPi

### Build Documentation

from the `docs` directory, run:

```shell
make html
```

Then open the documentation:

```shell
open _build/html/index.html
```

### Build the distributable for PyPi

(From the [PyPi tutorial](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/))

You shouldn't need to do this manually anymore; this will be handled by Travis CI

Make sure the necessary dependencies are installed.

```shell
pip3 install --upgrade setuptools wheel twine
```

Build the project. From the project root folder, run:

```shell
python3 setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
```

Upload it to the testing index:

```shell
python3 -m twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*
```

Upload it to the actual index:

```shell
python3 -m twine upload dist/*
```

Commit message:

Changelog added, got rid of Message.is_null And fixed title levels for documentation

docs/development.md, after:

# Development

This is reference material for local development.

If you just want to use the library, you don't need any of this.

## Release checklist

- Verify tests and examples are
- Check that all documentation is updated
- Update version number (``__version__`) in `gridsim/__init__.py`
- Update changelog: move "Unreleased" to new version
- Push to master
- Create release on Github
  (This will automatically create a new documentation version on Read The Docs and deploy an updated release to PyPi

## Build Documentation

from the `docs` directory, run:

```shell
make html
```

Then open the documentation:

```shell
open _build/html/index.html
```

## Build the distributable for PyPi

(From the [PyPi tutorial](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/))

You shouldn't need to do this manually anymore; this will be handled by Travis CI

Make sure the necessary dependencies are installed.

```shell
pip3 install --upgrade setuptools wheel twine
```

Build the project. From the project root folder, run:

```shell
python3 setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
```

Upload it to the testing index:

```shell
python3 -m twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*
```

Upload it to the actual index:

```shell
python3 -m twine upload dist/*
```
